remove 'unreclaimable' status (because what would happen if you can't play four cards in next round?)

for turn timeout, randomly play card rather than 'passing'

if player still must place vassals and/or soldier but board is full, then they can place the piece 
    in place of one of their soldier pieces on the board

at start of player's turn, if player hasn't yet used a command this round but no spell 
    card can be played, one command is discarded at random and a useable command card drawn


max number of soldier pieces on board? playing card would require replacing existing soldier piece on board




consolidate playablecards and canplaycard


account for rank in card draws


in status info, show sources of damage

when hovering over piece, highlight its attack pattern


can playCard and playCardTemp be consolidated (pass in board/pieces explicitly and flag)?


why is AI giving high scores to plays that put piece in place where it neither takes nor deals damage?

AI should not score duplicate cards (wasteful and biases selection in event of tie)

AI should prefer to use cards with duplicates, cards that are common, and cards with low mana cost



code cleaning: make sure funcs/methods take in only what they really need to


instead of scoreBoard, have scoreState which factors in card hand and offboard vassals
    also should account better for status effects

use scoreBoard to pick king placement and pickReclaimAI

scoreBoard should account for exposed positions (vulnerability to lines of sight)


recover panics in match so one bad match doesn't bring down server



in dev mode, automatically readies up both players


AI vs human
    piece reclaim
        analyze board state for all possible reclaim combinations

        prioritize pieces under threat and in unguarded positions

AI vs AI
    create a separate game loop that doesn't wait for user interactions (abstract out common logic with main game loop?)
    we don't want to watch these AI games, only record the moves and the winner

game playback (step through the moves of a recorded game)





fog of war - mist covers a column, making all attacks on and from that row have a 50% chance of missing
    random chance only applied in last damage calculation when combat is resolved
        (otherwise the dmg values would randomly fluctuate with every recalculation)

plague - inflict damage on all enemy pieces if enemy has 10 or more pieces on the board




communal cards? deck building?
in deck builds, players choose a few high cost cards to start in their hand 
    (so player's can better plan around high impact end game cards)
    or perhaps card draw always gives players one card of their current max mana? or max mana minus 1 or 2?

perhaps vassals should be tankier so using them as shields is not so discouraged




rally - boosts attack of all units within one space (a piece effect that creates square effect on adjacent squares)








escalation:

    perhaps every round you can permanently mark an enemy square out of bounds, or curse the square (does dmg to occupant)
    (maybe even choose your own square, which could be useful if cursed squares block attacks)


  


    some cards might be too powerful if cast after vassal placement, some too powerful if cast before?

    player must pick cards they will play for that round at start of round, or after king placement 
        (and opponent sees the cards)
        -take turns picking the cards?


card ideas:



    piece - heals directly behind, directly behind left, and directly behind right
    pope - like bishop, but heals (allies and enemies) in diagonal directions
    cardinal - heals (allies and enemies) in cardinal directions
    piece - hits all enemies/allies in back rows (of both sides)
    piece - stuns all pieces in one square distance
    piece - hits every enemy/ally on board for low dmg; even hits self and 
        has low health, so will kill self after a few turns
    
    creeper - does no dmg; medium hit points; roams to random free adjacent space after combat

    trebuchet - damages every enemy and ally in its column (except itself)


    moat - takes up a square, blocking attacks; high hp; disappears after 3 combats

    pikeman - hits two squares in front of itself; both squares hit regardless of blocking; low dmg; medium hp

    burning oil - hits whole enemy front row; does no dmg in round when played; disappears after second combat; low hp

    siege tower - placed only on your front line; when on board, can play other pieces on enemy's front line;
        disappears after two rounds of combat

    pestilence - placed on enemy side; hits all units in two square radius for low damage

    supply line - placed in mid row; boosts attack power of all units in front row by 2; low hp

    shield guard - does low dmg to unit directly in front; gives a point of armour to allies on left, right, and behind

    arquebusier - attacks straight ahead but in column immediately to its right (from player's perspective)

    archer - hits first piece that is 2+ squares in front of it; cannot hit enemy back row from own back row; 
        attack goes over any obstacles

    elephant - advances one square after combat; pushing aside any piece in its path; a pushed 
        piece that cannot move to random adjacent square is killed; no attack, but high hp

    body double - plant a king with 50% chance to swap places with real king 
        (opponent can't see which is real); false king lasts only for the round; false king does no damage

    under bishop - a smaller, weaker bishop that has range of 3 and low attack/hp

    under knight - a smaller, weaker knight that has normal knight attack pattern but low attack/hp

    under rook - a smaller, weaker rook that has range of 3 and low attack/hp

    calvary - attacks one square directly forward and one square directly to sides; 
        advances one square forward (if not blocked) at end of every round (after combat)
        (once reaches enemy backline, will vanish off board when it advances once more)

    brawler - hits in all directions; after combat, takes spot of adjacent enemy that just dies 
        (if more than one, the spot is picked at random from those that died)

    pope - diagonal attack like a Bishop, but instead of attack, heals allies 
        (and enemies?) in combat resolution (before damage is inflicted)?

    time bomb - can be placed on enemy side; has medium/low hp; if not killed, after 3 rounds, it   
        detonates after combat, hitting everything adjacent for big damage

    APOTHECARY -

    SPY - placed on enemy side; attacks one square in cardinal directions; disarmed for one round; 
        damaged by ally attacks

    MESSENGER -  

    MINSTREL - 

    SQUIRE - buffs attack and armour of adjacent ally vassals

    WATCHMAN - 

    Viscount

    Baron - 

    Prince - 

    Marquess - 

    Duke - 

    Falconer - attacks all enemies two squares away in diagonal directions (attack is not blocked)






    lock cards - lock 2 random, non-vassal cards in the enemy's hand for two rounds

    wrapped targeting - a piece modified such that attacks wrap around board like pacman 
        (but also becomes vulnerable to wrapped attacks?)

    poison square - in next round, a square will damage occupied unit (effect lasts multiple rounds?)

    poison row - in next round, all squares in a row will damage occupied unit




    block square/row - temporarily or permanently block square from occupation (does it block attacks or do theyy go through?)    

    secondary bishop, rook, knight cards   (cost mana and only last for the round? or persist?)

    shift pawn - move pawn (ally or enemy) to random other column without a pawn

    

    block pawn spawn in column - prevents auto spawn of pawn in column for next two rounds


    



    

    invade - open the enemy's front row for placing your pieces in this round


    draw cards - draw two cards

    heal all pawns - restoration applied after combat?

    ricochet - select your vassal - attack on target is transmitted from teh target in same pattern, e.g. bishop hits   
        enemy and so bishop's diagonal attack emanates in all 4 diagonals from that enemy

    nullify - selected unit remains on board but takes no damage and inflicts no damage this round

    aoe - curse unit for 1 turn: damage applied to unit hits all neighbor spaces (for half?) 

    long pawn - restore pawn to max health and extend its attack range to two spaces 

    

    chain attack - buff on ally or curse on enemy? attack on unit spreads recursively through all cardinally            
        contiguous pieces (maybe transmits through diagonals too?)

    swap rows - swap ally/enemy back row with middle row

    disable column - prevent placement in column for this round? affects whole column black and white






    

    

    

    Place Pawn - place a pawn in any free square on your side (get to choose precise square); cannot be played if you already have 5 pawns    
        counts towards your max pawn limit


    mimic bishop - knight or rook adopts bishop attack pattern for this and next 2 rounds

    force reclaim vassal - reclaim the piece you played in last turn, or force enemy to reclaim the piece they played in     
        last turn; the reclaimed piece cannot be used again this round

    hp aura - heals after combat, all adjacent pieces (including enemies?)
    attack aura - buff attack " " " " "

    



pieces that have limited life times (1 or 2 rounds); have no HP?

cards that can only be cast on enemies in line of attack
    - in some cases, require line of attack from specific vassal, e.g. can only cast on enemy threatened by bishop

cards that can be cast on an enemy but doesn't take effect unless it takes damage at end of round







on some browsers, scrollbar for card list and log not showing up when overflow-y

for scaling across dynos, use redis to share match state? ideally we can get both players of a 
    match to connect on same dyno, but not sure there's any mechanism for this

heroku: .play() is triggering exceptions? is it failing to play?

protection against bad behaving clients (flooding with messages)
    rate limit, cut off client if it exceeds threshold

total time clock that forfeits if it expires?
